Intro to Lambda
---------------

## Overview

This lab will give you the basic understanding of AWS Lambda. 
It will demonstrate the basic steps required to get started to create and deploy lambda function in an event driven environment.

## Topics covered

- Create an AWS Lambda S3 event function
- Configure an Amazon S3 bucket as a Lambda Event Source
- Upload a file to an Amazon S3 bucket.
- Monitor AWS Lambda S3 functions through CloudWatch

### Lambda, S3, CloudWatch

AWS Lambda is a compute service taht runs your code in response to events and automatically
maanges the compute resources for you, making it easy to build applications 
that response quickly to new information. AWS Lambda starts running your code within milliseconds
of an event such as an image upload, in-app activity, website click or output from a connected device
You can also use AWS Lambda to create a new back-end services where compute resources are automatically
triggered based on custom requests.


Amazon Simple Storage Service, provides develoeprs and IT Teams with secure, durable, highly-scalable object
storage. Amazon S3 is easy to use, with a simple web services interface to store and retrieve any amount of data
from anywhere on the web. With Amazon S3, you pay only for the storage you actually use. No minimum fee and no setup cost.

Amazon S3 can be used alone or togetehr with other AWS services such as EC2, EBS and Glacier as awell as third patrty storage repo and gateways
S3 provides cost-effective object storage for a wide variety of use cases including cloud applications, content distributeion, babckup and archiving
disaster recovery and big data analytics.


Amazon CloudWatch is a monitoring service for AWS cloud resources and the application you run on AWS.
You can use Amazon CloudWatch to collect and trck metrics, collect and monitor log files and set alarms.
Amazon CloudWatch can monitor AWS resources such as Amazon EC2 instances as well as custom metrics generated by
your applications and services and any log files your aplications generate.
You can use CloudWatch to gain system-wide visibility into resource utilization, application performance and operational health.
You can use these insights to react and keep yoru aplication running smoothly


## Handling S3 Events using AWS Lambda Console

We will create S3 bucket and configure it as the Lambda event source

- S3
- Create Bucket
- In Bucket - Select a Bucket Name and Region
    - Bucket Name: lambdabkt-random
    - Region: Oregon

## Create an S3 Lambda Function

- Lambda
- Select blueprint
    - s3-get-object
- Configure triggers
    - set the bucket name to the bucket you created
    - set event type to object created (all)
    - enable the checkbox next to enable trigger. this wil lallow s3 to trigger
    the lambda function being created when the selected event types occur.
    - Next
- Configure function
    - Name: S3Function
    - Runtime: Node.js
    - Handler: index.handler
    - Role: lambda-role
    - memory: 128
    - Timeout: 5 sec


## Upload a file to an Amazon S3 bucket to trigger a Lambda event

- S3
- Select bucket
- Upload file

## Monitor Lambda s3 functions through Amazon CloudWatch

- Lambda
- Select `S3Function`
- select Monitoring Tab
    - Invocation count
    - Invocation duration
    - Invocation errors
    - Throttled invocation
- view logs in cloudwatch
- Log Groups > Streams for /aws/lambda/s3function

